ABIDE BY. If you ABIDE BY a law, an agreement, or a decision, you accept it and behave in accordance with it. Observe and respect mean almost the same as abide by. Germany and Russia agreed informally to abide by the agreement. ANGLE FOR. If you are ANGLING FOR something, you try to make someone offer it to you without asking for it directly. I don't think he is going to angle for my car although he's very impatient to go downtown. BACK DOWN. If you BACK DOWN on something, you accept someone else's point of view, or agree to do what they want you to do, even though, you do not really want to. She didn't want to back down on her father's advice to take up dance as a career because she was firmly convinced to marry Mat and be a good housewife. BACK UP. If you BACK UP a statement, you supply evidence to prove that it is true or reasonable. The more bills you can include to back up your claim, the happier the finance department will be. BEAR OUT. If someone or something BEARS OUT what you are saying, they support what you are saying. She provided a strong counter-argument, with some witnesses to bear her out. BLOW UP. If you BLOW something UP or if it BLOWS UP, It is destroyed by an explosion. They now have enough nuclear weapons to blow themselves up many times over. BOUNCE BACK. If you BOUNCE BACK after a disappointing or unpleasant experience, you return quickly to your normal activities or to your previous level of enthusiasm or success. Marco has BOUNCED BACK very slowly since the day he was fired. BREAK AWAY. When you BREAK AWAY from a group, you stop being part of it, for example because of a disagreement. The horse BROKE AWAY from its handler. BREAK DOWN. When an arrangement, plan, or discussion BREAKS DOWN, it fails because of a problem or disagreement. Their marriage BROKE DOWN after their child birth. BREAK OFF. If you BREAK OFF a relationship or agreement, you end it. Diplomatic relations were restored after being broken off during the war. BREAK OUT. If something unpleasant BREAKS OUT, it begins suddenly. When war broke out my father joined the Navy and was drowned at sea. BREAK UP. If a group or organization BREAKS UP, or if something BREAKS it UP, the people in it separate from each other. The Soviet Union has broken up. BRING ABOUT. To BRING something ABOUT means to cause it to happen. The administration helped bring about a peaceful settlement. BRING AROUND. If someone disagrees with you and you BRING them ROUND, you cause them to change their opinion and agree with you. We tried to bring him round to our point of view. BRING DOWN. If people or events BRING DOWN a government or ruler, they cause them to lose their power. French revolution BROUGHT the monarchy DOWN. BRING DOWN. To BRING DOWN the level of something means to reduce it. The Government is going to BRING DOWN inflation. BRING FORWARD. If you BRING FORWARD a meeting or an event, you arrange for it to be at an earlier time or date then was planned. Ask him to bring the meeting forward to eight o'clock. BRING IN. When a government or other organization BRINGS IN a new law, rule, or system, they introduce it. We intend to bring in legislation to control their activities. BRING ON. Something that BRINGS ON an illness or pain causes it to occur. Mom missed dinner because the experience had brought on one of her migraines. severe continuous pain in the head. BRING OVER. If you bring someone or something over, you take them with you from one place, house, or country to another. The verb means also to convince someone to side with someone or with an Idea. Bring over your wife next time. He succeeded in bring him over with his point of view. BRING UP. When you BRING UP a particular subject, you mention it or introduce it into a discussion or conversation. I advised her to bring the matter up at the meeting. BRING UP. When you BRING UP a child, you look after it until it is grown up and you try to give it particular beliefs and attitudes. I brought up two children alone. BRUSH UP. If you BRUSH UP a subject you know but have not used for a while, you revise or improve your knowledge of it. I need to brush up my English; I haven't used it for seven years. BUILD UP. If something BUILDS UP or if you BUILD it UP, it gradually increases in amount, size, or intensity. We helped to build up the wealth of this country. CALL BACK. If you CALL BACK, you contact someone who has contacted you previously, often by telephone, or at the place where you last saw them. Do not CALL Pietro BACK, I remember now he told me he will come and see you at home. CALL IN. If you CALL someone IN, you ask them to come and help you or do something for you. Before you call in the water board, check that pipes are not frozen. CALL OFF. If you CALL OFF an event or an arrangement that has been planned, you cancel it. On the eve of her departure the strike was definitely called off, and she was sure of her flight. CALM DOWN. If you CALM DOWN or if someone CALMS you DOWN, you become less upset, excited, or lively. Only When I had CALMED myself DOWN, I could speak. CANCEL OUT. If one thing CANCELS another thing OUT or if two things CANCEL each other OUT, they have opposite effects, so that when they are combined no real effect is produced. The drug produces side effects, tending to cancel out the benefits. CARRY OUT. If you CARRY OUT a task, you do it. The first experiments were carried out by Doctor Smith. CATCH ON. If someone CATCHES ON to something, they understand and learn it. He hasn't really caught on to the system. CATCH UP. If you CATCH UP with someone who is in front of you, you reach them by walking faster then they are walking. She stood still, allowing him to catch her up. CHANGE OVER. To CHANGE OVER from one thing to another means to stop doing, using, or having one thing and start doing, using, or having something else. They had been Socialist till several years ago, then they changed over to Conservative. CHECK OUT. When you CHECK OUT of a hotel where you have been staying, you pay the bill and leave. She checked out of the hotel and took the train to Paris. CHECK OUT. If you CHECK something OUT, you find out about it or examine it because you want to make sure that everything is correct or safe. It might be difficult to transfer your money, so check it out with the manager. CHECK UP. If you CHECK UP on someone or something you obtain information about them, often secretly. The council had checked up on her and decided that she was unsuitable for employment. CHEER UP. When you CHEER UP or when someone or something CHEERS you UP, you stop feeling depressed and become more cheerful. Her friends tried to cheer her up, telling her she wasn't missing much. CLAMP DOWN. To CLAMP DOWN on people or activities means to take strong official action to stop or control them. The Police CLAMPED DOWN on gay demonstration. CLEAN OUT. If you CLEAN something OUT, you clean it very thoroughly and remove anything that is not wanted or needed. I spent three days cleaning our flat out. CLEAR UP. If you CLEAR UP a problem, disagreement, or misunderstanding, you settle it or give a satisfactory explanation for it. Inspector Smith was trying to clear up a tiresome problem. I'm going back till this weather clears up. CLOSE DOWN. If someone CLOSES DOWN a factory or an organization, or if it CLOSES DOWN, all work or activity stops there, usually for ever. I CLOSED DOWN the hotel because of lack of clients during summertime. COME DOWN. If the cost, level, or amount of something COMES DOWN, it becomes cheaper or less than it was before. I decided to COME DOWN my holiday. COME DOWN TO. If a problem or question COMES DOWN TO a particular thing, that is the most important or relevant factor to be considered. In my opinion in this situation it COMES DOWN TO asking: will we be successful following that way? COME IN. If someone COMES IN on a discussion, they join in, sometimes interrupting someone who is already speaking. Let me just come in on this, because Monica is not giving the whole story. COME IN. When something such as a fashion COMES IN, it becomes fashionable. Years ago, when miniskirts first came in, all the girls rushed to buy them. COME IN FOR. If someone or something COMES IN FOR criticism, blame, or abuse, they are criticized, blamed, or insulted. British industry does come in for a great deal of criticism. COME ON. If something is COMING ON, it is making progress or developing. How's your house coming on? When will it be finished? COME ON. If a cold, headache, or some other medical condition is COMING ON, it is just starting. It develops most often in the age period between 6 and 10. It can come on quite rapidly, so don't ignore the signs. COME OUT. When an information COMES OUT, it is revealed or made public. Remember this report came out after the election. COME UP. If something is COMING UP, it is about to happen or take place. I can't see you tonight. Something's coming up. COME UP AGAINST. If you COME UP AGAINST a problem or difficulty, you are faced with it and have to deal with. The first time I did this I came up against an unforeseen problem. COME UP WITH. If you COME UP WITH a plan, idea, or solution, you think of it and suggest it. The European Community commission came up with a compromise. COOL OFF. If someone or something that is too hot COOLS OFF, they become cooler. We cooled off from the heat with a refreshing swim COVER UP. If you COVER UP something that you don't want people to know about, you hide it from them. He alleged that the President knew about Watergate and tried to cover it up. CROSS OUT. If you CROSS OUT one or more words on a list, you draw a line through them to indicate that they are no longer on the list. You haven't got time to rewrite it, just cross out clearly what to change and write it above. CROUCH DOWN. If you crouch down, you move to a position in which your legs are bent under you so that you are close to the ground and slightly leaning forward. Two of them crouched down behind the car and we weren't unable to see what was going on. CUT BACK. If you CUT BACK something such as expenditure, you reduce it. I CUT BACK the smoking: We have to postpone our holiday in order to CUT BACK new expenses. CUT DOWN. If you CUT something DOWN, you reduce it or do it less often. I CUT my shopping DOWN to once a week because of my new job. DIE DOWN. If something DIES DOWN, it becomes much quieter or less intense. After three minutes the applause DIED DOWN. DO AWAY WITH. To DO AWAY WITH something means to get rid of it. Don’t DO AWAY WITH that newspaper I need it as a reference. DO UP. If you DO something UP, you fasten it. I can't do my top button up. DO UP. If you DO UP an old building, you repair and decorate it and put in modern facilities. They wanted payment in cash for doing up the kitchen of one of his cottages. DRAG ON. If an event or process DRAGS ON, it progresses very slowly and takes longer than seems necessary. Some legal cases have dragged on for eight years. DRAW UP. When you DRAW UP a document, list, or plan, you prepare it and write it out. The committee drew up a five-point plan to revive the economy. DRESS UP. If you DRESS UP or DRESS you UP, you put on clothes that are smarter then the ones you usually wear because you are going somewhere special. Rather than sit at home, they all get dressed up and go out. DRINK UP. When you DRINK UP, you finish what you are drinking completely. Drink up. Here comes another bottle of wine. DROP BY. To DROP BY means to visit someone informally without having arranged the visit. If there's anything you want to see, just drop by. DROP OFF. When you are driving, if you DROP one of your passengers OFF, you take them to where they want to go and leave them there. I can drop Daisy off on my way home. END UP. If you END UP in a particular place or situation, you are in that place or situation after a series of events, even though you did not originally intend to be. If we go on in this way, we shall end up with millions and millions of unemployed. EXPLAIN AWAY. If you EXPLAIN AWAY a mistake or unpleasant situation, you give reasons to show that it is not as bad or important as people think. How do you EXPLAIN AWAY the fact that we have been waiting for you since 4 p.m.? FACE UP TO. If you FACE UP TO a difficult situation, you accept it and deal with it. Issues like these simply cannot be ignored; the problems have to be faced up to. FADE AWAY. If something FADES AWAY, it slowly becomes less intense, frequent or common until it ends or disappears completely. As he grew older his memories of the past began to FADE AWAY. FALL APART. If an organization, system or relationship FALLS APART, it no longer works effectively and eventually fails or end completely. The treaty is falling apart before it has even come into effect. FALL BACK ON. If you FALL BACK ON or UPON something that you know you can rely on, you use it or do it when other things have failed. We have to be very careful in doing Mayo, if we fail we haven't other eggs on which FALLING BACK ON. FALL OFF. If the degree, amount, or standard of something FALLS OFF, it becomes less or lower. We knew that the numbers of overseas students would fall off drastically. FALL OUT. If you FALL OUT with someone, you have an argument and are no longer friendly with them. She had fallen out so severely with her parents that she couldn't go home. FALL THROUGH. If an arrangement or plan FALLS THROUGH, something goes wrong before it can be completed and it has to be abandoned. But the scheme fell through, despite all my careful instructions. FIGHT BACK. If you FIGHT BACK when someone attacks you or causes you problems, you defend yourself and try to beat them or stop them. They tried to FIGHT BACK with all their forces. FILL IN. If you FILL IN a form or the details on a form, you write all the information that is requested in the appropriate space. Ask for a claim form, fill it in and send it to the social security office. FIND OUT. If you FIND OUT something, you learn something that you did not already know. I'm only interested in finding out what the facts are. FINISH OFF. When you FINISH OFF something that you are doing, you complete it by doing the last part. We had to work until midnight to finish them off. FIT IN. If you manage to FIT IN a person or task, you manage to find time to deal with them You seem to fit in an enormous amount of work every day FIT IN WITH. If something FITS IN WITH a system, method, idea or situation, it is suitable and works successfully as part of it. They manufacture mild steel to fit in with modern methods of production. I'm willing to fit in with your way of doing things FIX UP. If you FIX something UP, you make the arrangements that are necessary to achieve it. Have you done anything about fixing up a meeting place? FOLLOW UP. If you FOLLOW something UP, you try to find out more about it and perhaps do something about it. It's an idea which has been followed up by the local council. GET AHEAD. If you GET AHEAD, you are successful in your career. The only way to get ahead is to move to another company. GET AROUND. If you GET ROUND or AROUND a difficulty or restriction, you find a way of avoiding it or of escaping its effects. An impasse has developed and I don't know how to get around it. GET AROUND TO. If you GET ROUND TO or AROUND TO doing something, you do it after a long delay because you were previously too busy or reluctant to do it. I didn't get around to taking the examination. GET AWAY FROM. If you GET AWAY FROM a place or a person's company, you succeed in leaving them. Giovanni decided to take a holiday just to GET AWAY FROM it all, GET AWAY WITH. If you GET AWAY WITH something that you should not have done, you are not criticized or punished for doing it. I'm not going to allow Mary to get away with an offensive remark like that. GET BACK. If you GET BACK to a place or position, you return there after you have been somewhere else. Marta and I have got to get back to Alessio’s house, we have forgotten our books. GET BY. If you GET BY in a difficult situation, you manage to cope with it. You can get by in any English conversation with a very limited vocabulary. GET DOWN TO. When you GETS DOWN TO something, you start doing it seriously and with a lot of attention Yesterday we started the project but I'd say that the only person of the staff who is getting down to it is Marina, the other are far from being enthusiastic. GET ON If you GET ON with someone, you like them and have a friendly relationship with them. He feels he may have been responsible. He has never got on well with his son and daughter-in-law. GET ON. If you ask how someone is GETTING ON with an activity, you are asking about their progress. Oh, yes, Mary is getting on well. First in her class last week. Clever girl. GET ON. If you GET ON with an activity, you start doing it or continue doing it. Perhaps we can get on with the meeting. GET OUT OF. If you GET OUT OF doing something, you avoid doing it. very informal use. I think they're trying to get out of their obligation under the agreement. GET OVER WITH. If you GET something OVER WITH, you do and complete something unpleasant that must be done. Let's try and get this meeting over with as quickly as possible. GET together. When people GET together, they meet in order to discuss something or to spend time together. Do you think we could get together at Christmas? GIVE AWAY. If you GIVE something AWAY, you give it to someone without taking money in return. You should decide now whether to keep the money or give it away. GIVE BACK. If something GIVES BACK a quality, characteristic, or freedom, that someone has lost, it restores to them that quality, characteristic, or freedom. The new course of English I am enrolled in is GIVING me BACK the hope to be successful in learning the language. GIVE IN. If you GIVE IN, you admit that you will have to do something you have been trying not to do, or that you will not be able to do something you wanted to do You certainly don't give in and meekly let the child have her way GIVE OUT. If you GIVE OUT a number of thighs, you distribute them among a number of different people. They also give out information about courses for teachers of English. GIVE UP. If you GIVE UP an activity or belief, you stop doing it or believing in it. I'll never be able to give up smoking GO AHEAD. When someone GOES AHEAD with something which they planned, promised, or asked permission to do, they begin to do it. The case will be discussed and he will be told whether or not he can go ahead. GO BACK. If you say that someone cannot GO BACK, you mean that they can never again be in a situation that they were in before. There is no more GOING BACK for you, now you have to trust only in yourself. GO BACK OVER. If you GO BACK something, you consider it again. You should GO BACK OVER and OVER to it until you are able to find a solution to your problem. GO DOWN AS. If someone or something GOES DOWN AS a particular thing, they are regarded, remembered, or recorded as that thing Although this will go down as my day, he and Marco were the real heroes. GO FORWARD. If something GOES FORWARD , it makes progress and begins to happen. Preparations were going forward for the annual Caxley Musical Festival. GO IN FOR. If you GO IN FOR a particular kind of thing, you like it and regularly do it, wear it, use it, and so on. I don't go in for that sort of fishing GO OFF. If an event or arrangement GOES OFF well, smoothly, or without problems, it is successful or happens without any problems. The ceremony at the Arc The Triumph went off exactly as planned. GO OFF. If a gun GOES OFF, it is fired. If a bomb, GOES OFF it explodes. The gun went off as he was putting it away. Food that has 'gone off' has been infected with bacteria that cause illness. GO ON. In informal English you say GO ON to someone to persuade or encourage them to do something. She turned to Poi rot again. 'Yes, go on. Go on finding out. GO ON. If you say that something is GOING ON, you mean that it's taking place at the present time. My dear President, he said icily, we don't know yet what's going on. We'll let you know when we find out.  Doctor James' opinion was that well educated children do not go on to be criminals when they grow up. GO OUT. When you GO OUT, you leave your house and go somewhere else, for example in order to shop, visit friends, see a film, and so on. I have to go out, I'll be back late tonight GO THROUGH WITH. If you GO THROUGH WITH a decision or an action, you continue to do what is necessary in order to achieve it. The government was determined to go through with that legislation. GO UP. If the cost, level, standard, or amount of something GOES UP, they move from a lower position to a higher one. The price of petrol and oil related products will go up steadily. GROW UP. As you GROW UP, you gradually change from being a child to being an adult. Children should grow up with a fond attitude towards all humanity. HAND OVER. If you HAND something OVER to someone, you give it to them so that they own it. Sir John handed over to his deputy and left. If you don't do what I ask, I'll take the money and hand it over to him. HELP OUT. If you help out or help someone out, you do them a favor, such as lending them money or doing some of their work. Neighborhood associations help out the poor with funeral expenses. HIDE AWAY. If you HIDE something AWAY, you put it in a place where nobody else can find it. My husband is coming, HIDE yourself AWAY in the wardrobe. HOLD BACK. If you HOLD BACK, or if something HOLDS you BACK, you hesitate before you act or speak, because you are not sure what to do or say. I don’t know what it was that HELD me BACK in that discussion. HOLD OFF. If you HOLD OFF an enemy, an opponent, or an attack, you prevent them from successfully attacking you or competing against you. The French and British wanted to hold off Portuguese textile competition as long as possible. HOLD UP. If something or someone HOLDS UP an activity or arrangement, they delay it or make it late. The European Community threatened to hold up the negotiations. HUNT DOWN. If you HUNT someone or something DOWN, you succeed in finding them after you have been searching for them. If there's a beast, we'll hunt it down. INFORM ON. If you INFORM ON someone, you give information about them to the police or other authority so that they are accused of having done something wrong because of what you said. It can be difficult for a child to inform on someone he knows. INTRUDE ON. If something INTRUDES ON or UPON your mood or way of life, it has an unwelcome or unpleasant effect on it. Nothing was allowed to intrude on their evening ritual. JOIN IN. If you JOIN IN an activity with other people, such as a meeting, you become involved in what they are doing He took his coat off and joined in the work. KEEP AWAY. If you KEEP AWAY from somewhere, you avoid going there. KEEP AWAY from the river bank, you might fall in. KEEP DOWN. If you KEEP the number, size, or amount of something DOWN, you stop it increasing and try to keep it at a low level. KEEP your voice DOWN!!! KEEP OFF. If you KEEP someone or something OFF a particular area, you prevent them from going onto it. If you don't keep off the street with your bicycle, I'll take it away. KEEP ON. If you KEEP someone ON at work or school, you continue to employ them although their contract has ended or they are old enough to retire, or you continue to educate them although they are old enough to leave. Only half the workforce will be kept on after this order has been completed. KEEP OUT. To KEEP someone or something OUT of a place means to prevent them from entering it or being there. They had a guard dog to keep out intruders. KEEP UP. If you KEEP UP, you work at the necessary speed so that you do as well as other people or so that you get all your work done in the required time. Monica tended to work through her lunch hour in an effort to keep up with her work. KICK OFF. When you KICK OFF an event or discussion, you start it. They kicked off a two-month tour of the U.S. with a party in Washington. KNOCK DOWN. If you KNOCK someone DOWN, you hit them, deliberately or accidentally, so that they fall to the ground. I bumped into and nearly knocked down a person at the bus stop. KNOCK DOWN. If a car or other vehicle KNOCKS someone DOWN, it hits them so that they fall to the ground and may be injured or killed. A bus came screeching to a stop, practically knocking him down. KNOCK OUT. If a person or team is KNOCKED OUT of a competition, they are defeated, so that they take no more part in the competition. Their aim is for the social Democrats to knock out the Labor Party. LAY DOWN. If laws, rules, or people in authority LAY DOWN what people should do, they state that this is what must be done There are laws which LAY DOWN what employers and employees must and must not do LAY OFF. If workers are LAID OFF , they are told by their employer that they have to leave their jobs, either for a period of time or permanently, because there is no more work for them to do. So if demand falls, the company lays men off. LAY ON. If you LAY ON something such as food, entertainment, or a service, you provide or supply it. The organizers had laid on buses to transport people from the city. LEAVE OUT. If you LEAVE someone or something OUT, you do not include them in an activity or group. One or two scenes in the play were left out of the performance LET DOWN. If someone or something LETS you DOWN, they fail to do something that you have been relying on them to do. If you LET her DOWN in such a way you won’t see her anymore, I know her, she’s got integrity! LET OFF. If you LET someone OFF a job or task that they should be doing, you say that they need not do it. They tried to get the teacher to let them off homework. LEVEL OFF. If something that is increasing, decreasing, or developing LEVELS OFF or OUT, it stops changing or developing and stays at the point it has reached. STABILIZE Economic growth has almost certainly started to level off. LIE AHEAD. If an event or situation LIES AHEAD, it is likely to happen in the future. Many seemingly insurmountable obstacles lay ahead. LIVE DOWN. If you are unable to LIVE DOWN a mistake, failure or foolish action, you are unable to make people forget that you did it If you were beaten by Jack, you'd never live it down LIVE UP TO. If someone or something LIVES UP TO people's expectations, they are as good as they were expected to be The film didn't live up to my expectations. LOOK FORWARD TO. If you LOOK FORWARD TO something that is going to happen, you want it to happen because you expect to enjoy it. I'm quite looking forward to seeing Rick again. LOOK ON. If you LOOK ON while something happens, you watch it without taking part yourself. He knew I would be able to read them. He could only look on and nod Because he and his friends were illiterate. LOOK OUT. You say or shout LOOK OUT to warn someone that they are in danger. Look out, I said. There's someone coming. LOOK OVER. If you LOOK something or someone OVER, you examine or inspect them in order to get a general idea of what they are like. Sometimes he would look over the article I had written, Shrug, and tear it up. LOOK UP. If you LOOK UP a piece of information in a book, or on a timetable or map, you look there to find the information. He consulted his dictionary to look up the meaning of the word. LOOK UP. If you LOOK someone UP or LOOK UP a place where you used to go, you visit the person or place after not having seen them for a long time. Look me up when you are next in the area. MAKE OUT. If you can MAKE OUT something that is difficult to understand, you manage to see or hear it. It is sometimes difficult to make out what is said over an airport loudspeaker. MAKE UP. The people or things that MAKE UP something form that thing. Women now make up two-fifths of the British labor force. MAKE UP. If you MAKE UP something as a story, you invent it, sometimes in order to deceive people. He was a good storyteller, and used to make up tales about animals. MAKE UP FOR. To MAKE UP FOR something that is damaged, lost, or missing means to replace it or compensate for it. She asked me questions about my interest in mathematics, as if to make up for excluding me from the conversation. She hurried on to make up for the minutes she had lost. MEASURE UP. When you MEASURE UP, you measure something such as a room or house, for example because you are going to decorate it or buy carpets or curtains for it. Before buying the furniture we have to measure the house up very carefully MESS UP. If you MESS UP something that has been carefully made or done, you spoil it. If she got caught with me now it would mess up the rest of her life. A mess-up is a situation in which something has been done very badly or wrongly. MIST UP. If a piece of glass mists up or is misted up, it becomes covered with tiny drops of moisture, so that you cannot see through it easily. Could you pass that cloth, the windscreen has misted up again. MIX UP. If you MIX UP two thighs or people, you confuse them, so that you think that one of them is the other one. I have somehow mixed up two events. MOVE ON. If people's ideas, knowledge, or beliefs MOVE ON, they change and become more modern. It was very clear that the world of the Sixties had moved on, had left him, and most of his world behind. MOVE ON TO. If you MOVE ON TO a particular topic, you bring that topic into a conversation or lecture after you have been talking about something else. The conference was able to move on to other matters of a wider interest. NARROW DOWN. If you NARROW DOWN something such as a choice or subject, you consider only the most suitable or important parts, and eliminate the rest. They NARROWED the list of guests DOWN from 200 to 150. OPT OUT. If you OPT OUT of something, you choose to be no longer involved in it. He tried to opt out of political and economic decision-making. PASS AWAY. If you say that someone PASSED AWAY, you mean that they died, used especially when you want to avoid saying the word die. My grandmother PASSED AWAY within 4 months of her husband. PASS ON. If you PASS something ON to someone, you give it to them, for example after you have used it or after someone else has given it to you. The union head office may be able to pass on helpful information, or it could put you in touch with someone who will be able to help you. PASS OVER. If you are PASSED OVER for a job or position that you are trying to get, it is given to someone who is less well-qualified or experienced than you. Neither of us got the job. We were both passed over in Mysterious circumstances. PAY OFF. If you PAY OFF a debt or bill, you give someone the total amount of money that you owe them so that you are no longer in debt. He had used the firm's money to pay off gambling debts. PHASE IN. If you PHASE IN a new product, method, or idea, you introduce it gradually. Beveridge's original plan was to phase in adequate old-age pensions in the period up to 1956 PHASE OUT. If you PHASE OUT a product, method, or idea, you gradually stop using it. Gold has been phased out of the monetary system. PICK UP. If you PICK UP someone you do not know, you start talking to them and being friendly towards them, usually because you want to have a sexual relationship with them. Did you pick up any Turkish while you were in Turkey. PICK UP. If you PICK UP a prize, a reputation, or something else that improves your situation, you gain it or win it. The economy is picking up. PICK UP. If you are driving a vehicle and you PICK someone or something UP, you stop the vehicle so that you can take them somewhere. Can you pick up the kids from school tonight? PIECE together. If you PIECE together the truth about something, you gradually discover it. She had not yet been able to piece together exactly what happened. PIN DOWN. To PIN DOWN something is to discover exact details about it. If you try to PIN DOWN something which is hard to define or describe, you try to say exactly what it is or what it is like. 1 Police forces are continuing inquiries to try and pin the whereabouts of the suspect down 2 We know there's been a radiation leak, but we can't pin down the place or time of its origin. PINE AWAY. If someone pines away, they gradually become weaker and die because they are very unhappy. If our transgressions and our sins lie upon us, and we pine away in them, how can we then live. PLAN AHEAD. Think ahead. They advised him to plan ahead for an election. PLAY DOWN. If you PLAY something DOWN, you try to make people think that it is unimportant, or less important that it really is. You are trying to PLAY DOWN your economic situation. PLUG IN. If you PLUG IN a piece of electrical equipment, you connect it to an electricity supply by pushing its plug into an electric socket. A television set is a fire risk if left plugged in over night POINT OUT. If you POINT something OUT, you give people an important piece of information or correct their mistaken ideas. Critics were quick to point out the weaknesses in these arguments. PULL DOWN. If a building or other structure is PULLED DOWN, it is deliberately destroyed, so that the land that it is on can be used. I leaved my house because my landlord wanted to PULL it DOWN to build a new building. PULL OFF. If you PULL something OFF, you succeed in doing something which is very difficult to achieve. Alex was one of the few persons who could pull that kind of things off. You have just pulled off one of the biggest arms deals in the twentieth century. PULL OUT. If you PULL OUT of an activity or agreement, you decide not to continue it. We've invested too much money and manpower to pull out now. PULL THROUGH. When someone who is very ill PULLS THROUGH or when a doctor PULLS them THROUGH, they recover. The doctors managed to pull her through a long and difficult illness. PULL together. When you PULL yourself together, you control your feelings and behave calmly after you have been upset or angry. That's quite enough of that. Pull yourself together now and stop this at once. PULL UP. When a vehicle PULLS UP, it slows down and stops. The rain stopped as we pulled up to the hotel. PUSH UP. To PUSH UP the price, rate, or amount of something means to increase it. The bank of Japan rightly judged that it was too early to push up interest rates to defend the yen. PUT AWAY. If you put something away, you place it tidily somewhere, for example in a cupboard drawer, or pocket. As soon as Marta arrived home, She PUT her shopping AWAY in the kitchen. PUT BY. If you PUT BY a sum of money or a supply of something, you save it so that you can use it later. You should start putting something by for when the children are older. PUT DOWN. If you PUT DOWN a person or their ideas, you criticize them and make them appear foolish or unimportant. Every time I speak with Marco he wants PUT my ideas DOWN. PUT DOWN. If you PUT DOWN words or numbers, you write or type them somewhere You haven't put Monica's husband name down on the list PUT DOWN TO. If you PUT one thing DOWN TO another thing, you believe that it is caused by the other thing. It seems to me that Mara's behavior puts down to the coldness their friends are showing to her PUT FORWARD. Propose and set out. The TUC put forward a plan for national recovery. PUT IN. If you PUT one thing IN another, you place it inside the other thing. If you pour hot water into a glass, put a spoon in first to absorb the heat PUT IN. If you PUT IN time or effort doing something, you spend time or work hard doing it. Half of them were putting in forty-five hours a week or more PUT OFF. If you PUT OFF an event or appointment, you delay or postpone it. Don't put it off till tomorrow PUT OUT. If a statement or story is PUT OUT, it is officially told to people. The World Wildlife Fund put out a press release. PUT OVER. When you PUT an idea OVER, you succeed in describing or explaining it to someone. The university's prospectuses didn't put it over the way I wanted to. PUT THROUGH. If people in authority PUT THROUGH a proposal or plan, they formally agree to it. They put through the first nuclear arms agreements. PUT together. If you PUT together an object or its parts, you join its parts to each other so that it can be used. The shipyards possess years of expertise in putting together such big metal structures. PUT UP. If someone PUTS you UP or if you PUT UP somewhere, you stay with them or stay there for one or more nights. The Murray's had put him up for the night. PUT UP WITH. Endure. I'm prepared to put up with it for the time being. RAMBLE ON. If someone RAMBLES ON, they talk or write for a long time in a rather confused and disordered way. The professor was always rambling on about his favorite subject. REIN IN. To REIN IN someone who is behaving in an extreme or unacceptable way means to control them and make them behave properly. He was reined in so severely that he almost resigned. RIP OFF. If someone RIPS you OFF, the cheat you by charging you too much money for something. The local shopkeepers were all trying to rip off the tourists. ROUGH UP. If someone ROUGHS you UP, they attack you by hitting or beating you. Pushers moved in and roughed me up a bit. RULE OUT. If you RULE OUT an idea or a course of action, you decide that it is impossible or unsuitable. They can't rule out the possibility that he was kidnapped. RUN AWAY. If you RUN AWAY, you move quickly and farther from a place or person. I saw Monica RUNNING AWAY from Diego's house at 10 p.m. RUN DOWN. A building or area that is RUN DOWN is in poor condition, because it has not being looked after. Your house is RUN DOWN because of lack of care in these last few years RUN OFF. If you RUN OFF, you move quickly away from a place or person. She gave a brief wave and ran off across the lawn. RUN OFF. If you RUN OFF with someone, you secretly go away with them to live with them or marry them. His wife ran off with another man. RUN OFF. If a path, track, or corridor RUNS OFF from a place, it starts at that place and goes away from it. A narrow track running off into the forest. RUN OUT. If you RUN OUT of something, you have no more of it left. We were rapidly running out of money. RUN OVER. If vehicle or its driver RUNS OVER someone or something, the vehicle hits them or drives over them causing injury or damage. The sweat rolled down my neck, and we almost ran over some little animal or other that was crossing the road. SAVE UP. If you SAVE UP or SAVE UP money, you collect money by not spending it, usually so that you can buy something you want. They are saving up money for a holiday. SCALE DOWN. If something is SCALED DOWN, it is made smaller in size, amount, or extent then it used to be. I didn’t expect that my relation was SCALED DOWN so much. SEE OFF. When you SEE someone OFF, you go with them to the station, airport, or port that they are leaving from, and say goodbye to them there. He saw him off at the station. SELL OUT. If a shop is SOLD OUT of something, or has SOLD OUT of it, it has all been sold, and there is none of it left in the shop. Shops almost immediately sold out of the advertised goods. SET BACK. If something SETS you BACK or SETS BACK your planes, it causes a delay and makes you wait before you can continue with what you want to do. The unexpected cold of the past winter had SET us BACK with the surveying of his ground. SET IN. If something unpleasant SETS IN, it begins and seems likely to continue or develop. By the time he had got it back in place, panic had set in SET OFF. When you SET OFF, you start a journey. He set off on another of his European pleasure tours. SET OUT. If you SET things OUT, you put them somewhere in a organized way so that they can be used or so that they can be seen easily. Operating instructions are clearly set out at the side of most public telephones. SET OUT. When you SET OUT, you start a journey. Once more they set out to climb the slope of the mountain. SET UP. If you SET something UP, you make the arrangements and preparations that are necessary to it to start. The first thing to do in a crisis is to set up a committee. SETTLE DOWN. When someone SETTLES DOWN, they start living a quiet life in one place especially when they get married or buy a house. Alan told her that after this, he would SETTLE DOWN and marry her SETTLE IN. If you SETTLE IN or you are SETTLED IN, you become used to living in a new house or town or doing a new job. And how are you settling in, Monica? SHOW OFF. If you SHOW OFF, you try to impress people by making your skills or good qualities very obvious; used showing disapproval. He was afraid the others might think he was showing off or being superior. SINK IN. When a fact or idea, usually an unpleasant one, SINKS IN, it gradually becomes recognized or understood. The implications of this did not at first sink in SKIM OFF. If you SKIM OFF a substance which is floating on the top of a liquid, you remove it. Skim the scum off from time to time. SKIM THROUGH. If you SKIM THROUGH a piece of writing, you read through it quickly without looking at the details. Mary will fail the reading comprehension test if she maintains the attitude to skim through the exercises. She should scan every line very carefully instead. SLIP UP. If you SLIP UP, you make a mistake; informal. We must have slipped up somewhere. SMOOTH OVER. If you SMOOTH OVER a problem or difficulty, you talk about it in a way that makes it seem less serious and easier to deal with. She tried to smooth over the differences between them. SOFTEN UP. If you SOFTEN someone UP, you praise them or try to please them because you want to ask them to do something for you which they do not really want to do. I wondered if there was any hope of softening him up. SORT OUT. If you SORT OUT a group of things, you consider them carefully and divide them into categories that are clearly different from each other. It was an intelligence test, intended to sort out the children capable of attempting the papers. SOUND OUT. If you SOUND someone OUT, you ask them questions in order to find out their views, especially about what should or will happen in a particular situation. Kids at school were always sounding her out about their chances of being moved to the top of the list. SPARK OFF. If one things SPARK OFF a state or event, it causes the state or event to exist or happen. There was a risk that the decision would spark off a conflict. SPEAK OUT. If you SPEAK OUT, you express your views forcefully and publicly, especially in order to criticize or oppose something. He spoke out early against the war in Vietnam. SPEAK UP. If you SPEAK UP about something, you say publicly what you believe, especially in support of a person or an idea. Could you please speak up? We can't hear you at the back. Never be frightened of speaking up for your beliefs. SPEED UP. When something SPEEDS UP or when you SPEED it UP, its speed increases so that it moves or happens more quickly. Bad housing and poverty speed up the breakdown of family life. SPELL OUT. If you SPELL something OUT, you explain it in detail or in a very clear way. The first person to spell this out clearly was Alvin Toffler in his book 'Future Shock'. SPIN OFF. If a part of something is SPUN OFF, it is separated from the whole, because it is not relevant or important, or because it would be more useful in another place. The company is trying to spin off part of its business. SPIN OFF. To produce something unexpected or additional to that which is intended to be produced. The American space program has spun off new commercial technologies. STAND BACK. If you STAND BACK from a problem or situation, you try to think about it again in a fresh way, ignoring previous ideas or personal feelings. If we want to find a solution to our problem we have to take a break, then we'll be able to stand back from it. STAND BY. If you STAND BY, you are ready to provide help or take action if it becomes necessary. Government engineers were standing by to provide emergency repairs in the event of a breakdown. The plane was on the runway, standing by for take-off STAND DOWN. If someone STANDS DOWN, they resign from an important position, often in order to let someone else take their place. She was asked to STAND DOWN in favor of a younger candidate STAND FOR. If you say that a letter or initial STANDS FOR a particular word or name, you mean that it is an abbreviation for that word or name. What do the initials UNESCO stand for? STAND FOR. The ideas, or attitudes that someone STANDS FOR are the ones that they support or represent. What does that political party stand for? STAND OUT. If something STANDS OUT from other things of the same kind, it is much better or much more important than those other things. The Australian tour stands out as the most satisfying and enjoyable of them all. STAND OUT. If something STANDS OUT, it can be seen very clearly. The name on the van stood out clearly. STAND UP FOR. If you STAND UP FOR a person or principle that is being attacked or criticized, you take forceful action in order to defend that person or principle. Paul was brought up in a rough neighborhood where people learned early how to stand up for themselves. STAND UP TO. If you STAND UP TO someone, especially someone more powerful than you are, you defend yourself against their attacks or demands. John is a bully  if you want to work with him you'll have to learn how to stand up to him. STAY IN. If you STAY IN, you remain at home rather than going out and enjoying yourself. We stayed in the whole evening, didn't go to the disco at all. STAY ON. If you STAY ON somewhere, you remain there longer than other people, longer than in the past, or longer than you planned. Pupils have to stay on at school till they are 16. STEP BACK. If you STEP BACK from a problem or situation, you try to think about it again in a fresh way, ignoring previous ideas or personal feelings. It is tempting to step back and ask whether it is worth introducing such a complicated scheme. STEP DOWN. If you STEP DOWN from an important job or position, you resign from it, often in order to let someone else take your place. Robert offered to step down if that would promote negotiations. STICK AROUND. If you STICK AROUND, you stay where you are, often because you are waiting for something. Mike wanted me to stick around for a couple of days. STIR UP. To STIR UP trouble or STIR UP a feeling means to cause trouble or to cause people to have the feeling. He was prevented from speaking on the grounds that it would stir up trouble. SUM UP. If you SUM UP a situation, you state or describe briefly its most important aspects or characteristics. I can't sum up his whole philosophy in one sentence. TAKE APART. Dismantle. Their tasks include taking apart and reassembling large bits of furniture. He had read the material and was prepared to take apart the statement that rhetoric is an art. TAKE AWAY. If you TAKE something AWAY from a place or position, you remove it and put it somewhere else. Look:  if you have 20 apples and I TAKE 10 AWAY, how many have you got left? TAKE BACK If you TAKE BACK something which you borrowed or bought, you return it to the place or person that you got it from. These diskettes are the wrong capacity, you'd better TAKE them BACK TO the shop. TAKE DOWN. If you TAKE DOWN what someone is saying, you listen to them and write it down or record it. He set up a tape recorder at Peter's bed to take down anything he might say. TAKE IN. If you TAKE someone or something IN, you go with them into a room, building, or other place, such as the centre of a town. I drove him to the centre of the town.  he said he didn't want to take his car in TAKE IN. If you TAKE IN something that you see, hear, or read, you pay attention to it and are able to understand it. Mrs. Dean shook hands, her eyes taking in Monica from head to foot TAKE OFF. If you TAKE time OFF, you spend it doing something different from your normal routine or job. Bill and I took time off from work and flew to France. TAKE OFF. When a airplane or bird TAKES OFF. it leaves the ground and starts flying. A steady stream of aircraft was taking off and landing. TAKE ON. If you TAKE ON a job, task, or responsibility, you accepts it and try to do what is required. My mother's shoe maker has taken on a most difficult task in repairing my brothers' boots. TAKE OUT. If you TAKE someone OUT, for example to a restaurant or a film, they go there with you, and you pay for everything. Why don't you take the children out? TAKE OUT ON. If you TAKE something OUT ON someone, you behave in an unpleasant way towards them because you feel angry or upset. I was in a depressed and hostile mood, needing to take my bad feelings out on someone. TAKE OVER. To TAKE OVER a company or business means to gain control of it by buying it or buying a majority of its shares. Some people wanted to take over my father's oil importing business. He was 'Jack Reed, a former rugby star who had recently taken over as manager of the bank's main branch in the city. TAKE UP. If you TAKE UP an activity or job, you start doing it. She decided to take up medicine as a career. TAKE UP ON. If you TAKE someone UP ON an offer they have made, you accept their offer. That's very kind of you, Mr. Zap, I'll take you up on that generous invitation. TALK DOWN TO. If someone TALKS DOWN TO you, they talk to you in a way that shows that they think that they are more important or more clever than you PATRONIZE Parents can't dictate to their adolescent children or talk down to them TALK OUT OF. If you TALK someone OUT OF doing something, you persuade them not to do it. He tried to talk me out of buying such a big car. TALK OVER. If you TALK something OVER, you discuss it with someone. I'll talk it over with Len Tonight and let you know tomorrow. TEAR APART. If something TEARS a person, organization, or country APART, it causes them to experience great conflicts or disturbances. He was fighting against the 'anarchy' which he insisted was tearing the Church apart. TEAR OFF. If you TEAR OFF you clothes, you take them off quickly and violently. She tore her sandals off and jumped in. TELL OFF. If you TELL someone OFF, you speak to them angrily because they have done something wrong. When I was told off by my parents, it was nearly always justified. THINK OVER. If you THINK something OVER, you consider it carefully before making a decision. He said he would leave me alone to think things over for five minutes. THINK THROUGH. If you THINK a situation THROUGH, you consider it thoroughly, together with all its possible effects or consequences. I haven't really thought the whole business through in my own mind. THINK UP. If you THINK UP a clever idea, you use your imagination or intelligence to create it. I kept thinking up ways I could murder him without getting caught. THROW AWAY. If someone THROW AWAY something valuable that they have, they waste it rather than using it sensibly. Don’t THROW AWAY your future by making a hasty decision THROW IN. If you THROW IN an extra item when you are selling something or arranging something, you add it or include it in order to persuade people to buy the thing or accept the arrangement. We only had to pay 10 dollars for bed and breakfast, with lunch thrown in. THROW OUT. If you THROW OUT an object you no longer want, you get rid of it, for example by putting it in a dustbin. I can remember my parents throwing out their old furniture. TIDY UP. When you TIDY UP a place, a container, or the things in them, you put all the things back in their proper places so that the place or container is neat again. He went back to the studio and tidied it up. TRACK DOWN. If you TRACK DOWN someone or something, you find them after searching for them with effort. find You have to cover a wide area to have any hope of tracking down the submarine. TRY OUT. If you TRY something OUT, you test it in order to find out how useful or effective it is. Oxford is trying out another idea to help working parents. TURN DOWN. If you TURN DOWN a person, their request, or their offer, you refuse their request or offer. She applied for a job in a restaurant, but was TURNED DOWN TURN IN. When you TURN IN, you go to bed; an informal use. Before turning in for the night he asked for an early morning call. TURN IN. If you TURN something IN, you give it to someone in authority because it is their responsibility to deal with it. Mr. Dean will be leaving the firm soon whether or not he voluntarily TURNS IN his resignations. TURN OUT. If something or someone TURNS OUT to be a particular thing, they are discovered to be that thing. It may look true in the short run and turn out to be false in the longer run. TURN UP. If something TURNS UP or is TURNED UP, it is found, discovered, or noticed. Protein turns up in almost every food. TURN UP. show up. If it's a boring game the crowds won't turn up next time. URGE ON. If you URGE someone ON, you encourage them to do something. The president, reportedly urged on by his vice-president, has decided to attend the talks. USE UP. If you USE UP a supply of something, you finish it so that none of it is left. He used up all the coins he had. WARM UP. If you WARM UP you do some exercise in order to prepare yourself to a session of game, sport, or other activities that involve the movement of your body. Shall we have a game straight away, or would you rather warm up first. WEAR DOWN. If you WEAR people DOWN, you weaken them or their position by being more persistent than they are. The night cryings of your child are WEARING you DOWN. WEAR OFF. When a feeling WEARS OFF, it disappears slowly until it no longer exist or has any effect. The effect of the aspirin had worn off and her toothache had come back WEAR OUT. If something WEARS you OUT, it makes you become so tired that you cannot continue what you were doing. Visitors wear us out more than the children do. WEIGH UP. If you WEIGH something UP, you consider their importance in relation to each other in order to help you make a decision. Having weighed everything up, he must have decided it was the right thing to do. WIN OVER. If you WIN someone OVER, you persuade them to support you or agree with you. Local radio stations have done their best to win over new audiences. WIND UP. When you WIND UP an activity, you finish it or stop doing it. When my turn came to wind up the debate, I felt very nervous. WIPE OUT. ERADICATE. Epidemics wiped out the local population. WORK AWAY. If you WORK AWAY, you continue working hard for a long time. Emanuel is still working; he has been WORKING AWAY since 6 a.m. WORK OFF. If you WORK something OFF, you gradually overcome the effects of it by doing something energetic or something different. We should all be able to work off our stress physically. WORK OUT. If you WORK OUT a solution or a plan, you think about it carefully and find a solution or decide what to do. We are always hopeful that a more peaceful solution can be worked out. WRITE OFF. If you WRITE someone or something OFF, you decide that they are unimportant, useless or unlikely to be successful and that they are not worth of further consideration. Whatever you do, she pleaded, don't write off philosophy without even trying it. SHY AWAY FROM. To avoid something because of dislike, fear, or lack of confidence I've never shied away from hard work. FIDDLE ABOUT. If you FIDDLE ABOUT or AROUND, you do small tasks without effort or interest and do not achieve very much. He stood there fiddling about with the things on my desk. SHAPE UP. If someone or something is shaping up in a particular way, they are developing or progressing in that way… If you shape up you became fit, healthy, or prepared for something. The campaign is shaping up as one of the most productive sales campaigns ever. I'm shaping up for the race. SHELL OUT. If you shell out for something, you spend a lot of money on it but you really don't want. Same as Fork out He's going to have to shell out 25 thousands dollars in communication facilities. PEEL OFF. If you PEEL the outer layer OFF something or if it peels off, you remove it or it separates so that it comes away from the surface gently. On the statues, the gold leaf was beginning to peel off. RIOT IN. To indulge. The African dictator rioted in unrestrained cruelty RIOT OUT. To waste one's life leading a dissipated life. In the last ten years before her death he rioted her life out collecting lovers and spending all her substances. TAKE ON. If you take on a rival or opponent, especially one who is bigger or more powerful than you, you fight or compete against them. If we don't take on the invaders they will' steal all our land. TEE OFF. When a golfer tees off, he or she hits the first shot at the start of a round of golf. Hit a few practice shots before you tee off just to warn off TEEM DOWN. If it is teeming down it is it is raining very heavily. Coming back from work it was teeming down and I got soaked SLOG AWAY. If you slog away at something, you continue to work hard at it for a long time. Having got the job after months of unemployment, he likes now to really slog away at it. SLOG THROUGH. If you slog through something difficult, you continue moving through it or working at it with a lot of effort. In order to reach the house in the forest we had to slog through 2 meters of snow. SLOP OVER. If a liquid slops over, it spills over the edge of the container it is in. Some of the milk slopped over onto the table SLOT INTO. If you slot someone or something into a schedule, scheme, or programme, you find a place for them within it. Mark was slotted in a hard programme to bounce back after three years of drug and bad fellowship. PLOUGH BACK. If you plough profits back into a business, you use them on improving the business so that you can make more money. She was eager to plough the first profits back into the business and spent more than 25000€ on new equipment. PLEAD WITH. If you plead with someone, you ask them for something in an intense and emotional way. She pleaded with Mark to tell her the truth. PLEAD FOR. If you plead for something, you ask for it very strongly and very emotionally. When a lawyer pleads for someone, he or she speak for them and try to defend them in a court. The little girl pleaded for playing with her brother 10 minutes more before to leave. It is obviously difficult to plead for someone who is guilty for sure. FAIL BEHIND. If you fail behind when moving with a group of people, you move more slowly than them, so they get ahead of you. After the first advantage slowly Mark failed behind the other runners. PLAGUE WITH. If you are plagued with unpleasant things, they keep happening and cause you a lot of trouble or suffering. The inner-city school is plagued with problems. ' INURE TO. If you are inured to something unpleasant, you are used to it and accept it as being impossible to avoid. Very Formal Look at the child so inured to punishment that no longer cares. GAD ABOUT. If you gad about or around you go to a lot of different places looking for entertainment and amusement. old fashionable and informal expression. I blamed them for gadding about while I did all the work. GET ABOUT. If people can get about after they have been ill or when they are old, they are able to move around without much difficulty. He gets Mark to help him, otherwise he just couldn't get about, he'd just be stuck here. MUFFLE UP. If you are muffled up or if you muffle yourself up, you are wearing a lot of heavy clothes. She was so afraid to feel cold that decided to muffle herself up in a very comical way. HOLE UP. If you hole up somewhere, you hide yourself there; informal expression. Pakistani forces remained engaged in a fierce battle early Saturday with al Qaeda fighters in a remote mountainous region where it is believed the terror network's reputed second-in-command, NAME, may be holed up, Pakistani officials said. SHOOT OFF. If someone or something shoots off, they leave very quickly. We saw her car shoot off at a terrible speed. SHOOT DOWN. If someone shoots something or someone down, they make them fall to the ground by hitting them with a bullet or missile. The enemy claimed to have shot down 33 of our planes. Their helicopter was shot down in flames. LINE UP. If you line up with, behind, or alongside someone, you support them, If you line up against them you oppose them. We can already see that the company will line up against Toyota and Nissan. LINGER ON. If something or someone lingers on, they remain or continue to exist for a long time, especially longer than was expected. Many of the old ways were dropped, but some of the habits lingered on LINK UP. If you link up with someone, you meet them somewhere, usually before traveling on to another place with them. We met in Genoa and linked up with the rest of the team in Rome WALK INTO. If you walk into an unpleasant or dangerous situation, you become involved in it unexpectedly, sometimes because put no attention in what you are doing. He had walked into a trap. You might be walking into an ambush. WRAP UP. If you wrap up or wrap yourself up, you put warm clothes on in order to feel warm. Wrap up well. It's cold outside. WATCH OUT FOR. WATCH OUT FOR means be careful. Watch out for snakes while you are hiking in the desert. MELT INTO. If a feeling such as anger melts into a more gentle feeling, it changes into it. Mary has always been very angry with her father but her stern feeling has melted into one of affection recently. LIVEN UP. If you liven something up you make it more interesting and exciting by improving its shape, performance or other qualities. Does your business has a website? Then you may want to liven it up with a fetching Flash intro or an animated logo to make it even more effective and memorable TURN AROUND. If something such as a plan, project, or business that is failing turns around or if you turn it around, it becomes successful and profitable. Mary Smith served five years in prison for stealing a toolbox. Now, she says she has turned her life around. WRAP UP. If you wrap up something such a job, agreement, or particular activity, you complete or end it in a satisfactory way. Condoleezza Rice wraps up three hours of testimony under oath Thursday before the 9/11 commission. SLOW DOWN. If something slows down or if you slow it down, it starts to move or happen more slowly. The van slowed down. PISS OFF. If a person tells someone else to PISS OFF, that person is telling them in a rude way to go away, usually because they have done something annoying.